README.md, before:


> _A non-AI automatic scheduler for taskwarrior (i.e. alternative to skedpal/timehero/flowsavvy/reclaim/trevor/motion)_

This is a taskwarrior extension checks if tasks can be completed on time, considering estimated time and working hours.

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b9082701-339b-4407-b941-b613a717382c"/>
</p>

## Features

- [x] Use arbitrarily complex time maps
- [x] Use ical to block time from scheduling (e.g. for meetings, vacations, etc.)
- [x] Implement scheduling algorithm for parallely working on multiple tasks
- [ ] Use Google API to access calendars
- [ ] Export tasks to iCal calendar and API calendars

## Install

1. `pipx install taskcheck`
2. `taskcheck --install`

## How does it work

This extension parses your pending and waiting tasks sorted decreasingly by urgency and tries to schedule them in the future.
It considers their estimated time to schedule all tasks starting from the most urgent one.

#### UDAs

Taskcheck leverages to UDAs, `estimated` and `time_map`. The `estimated` attribute is
the expected time to complete the task in hours. The `time_map` is a comma-separated list of strings
that indicates the hours per day in which you will work on a task (e.g. `work`, `weekend`, etc.).
The exact correspondence between the `time_map` and the hours of the day is defined in the configuration
file of taskcheck. For instance:

```toml
[time_maps]
# get an error)
[time_maps.work]
monday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
tuesday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
# ...
```

#### They say it's an "AI"

Taskcheck will also parse online iCal calendars (Google, Apple, etc.) and will match them with your time maps.
It will then modify the Taskwarrior tasks by adding the `completion_date` attribute with the expected
date of completion and the `scheduled` attribute with the date in which the task is expected to
start.

It will also print a red line for every task whose `completion_date` is after its `due_date`.

In general, it is recommended to run taskcheck rather frequently and at least once at the beginning
of your working day.

#### Reports

You can also print simple reports that exploit the `scheduling` UDA filled by Taskcheck to grasp
how much time you have to work on which task in which day. For
instance:

- `taskcheck -r today` will show the tasks planned for today
- `taskcheck -r 1w` will show the tasks planned for the next week,

## Algorithms

Taskcheck provides two scheduling algorithms: `parallel` and `sequential`.

#### Sequential

The `sequential` algorithm schedules tasks one after the other. It is the simplest algorithm.
It looks at your tasks one by one, computes the time slots available for that task, and fills them
as soon as possible.

While it sounds logical, it has a problem.
While you're working on a task, its remaining estimated time is decreasing, and if your urgency
depends on the estimated time left, the urgency of the task will decrease as well.
This is especially problematic for long tasks: imagine if you block your whole week for a single
task and all the other small tasks, even if urgent, don't get scheduled. After a few days, the
urgency of the first long task should have decreased.

#### Parallel

The `parallel` algorithm tries to solve the problem of the `sequential` algorithm.

Instead of allocating all the available time for a task until the task is finished, the `parallel`
algorithm allocates a fixed amount of time for each task (e.g. 1 hour) and then recomputes the
urgency and restart the allocation procedure.

If after 1 hour the long task has decreased urgency, that will be noticed and the newer most urgent
task will get scheduled in its place.

The minimum time for a task is by default 2 hours, but you can change it by tuning the `min_block`
taskwarrior UDA.

The `parallel` algorithm is the default algorithm.

## Configuration

`taskcheck --install` allows you to create required and recommended configurations for
   taskwarrior. It will also generate a default configuration file for taskcheck.

Below is an example of taskcheck configuration file:

```toml
[time_maps]
# in which hours you will work in each day (in 24h format, if you use e.g. 25.67 you will likely 
# get an error)
[time_maps.work]
monday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
tuesday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
wednesday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
thursday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
friday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]

[time_maps.weekend]
saturday = [[9, 12.30], ]
sunday = [[9, 12.30], ]

[scheduler]
algorithm = "parallel" # or "sequential", see above
days_ahead = 1000 # how far go with the schedule (lower values make the computation faster)

[calendars]
# ical calendars can be used to block your time and make the scheduling more precise
[calendars.1]
url = "https://your/url/to/calendar.ics"
expiration = 0.08 # in hours (0.08 hours =~ 5 minutes)
timezone = "Europe/Rome" # if set, force timezone for this calendar; timezone values are TZ identifiers (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones)

[calendars.holidays]
url = "https://www.officeholidays.com/ics-clean/italy/milan"
event_all_day_is_blocking = true
expiration = 720 # in hours (720 hours = 30 days)
```

## Tips and Tricks

- You can exclude a task from being scheduled by removing the `time_map` or `estimated` attributes.
- You can see tasks that you can execute now with the `task ready` report.

## CLI Options

```
-v, --verbose: increase output verbosity
-i, --install: install taskcheck configuration
-r, --report: show tasks planned until a certain time
```

Commit message:

Removed sequential algorithm and updated readme

README.md, after:


> _A non-AI automatic scheduler for taskwarrior (i.e. alternative to skedpal/timehero/flowsavvy/reclaim/trevor/motion)_

This is a taskwarrior extension checks if tasks can be completed on time, considering estimated time and working hours.

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b9082701-339b-4407-b941-b613a717382c"/>
</p>

## Features

- [x] Use arbitrarily complex time maps
- [x] Use ical to block time from scheduling (e.g. for meetings, vacations, etc.)
- [x] Implement scheduling algorithm for parallely working on multiple tasks
- [ ] Use Google API to access calendars
- [ ] Export tasks to iCal calendar and API calendars

## Install

1. `pipx install taskcheck`
2. `taskcheck --install`

## How does it work

This extension parses your pending and waiting tasks sorted decreasingly by urgency and tries to schedule them in the future.
It considers their estimated time to schedule all tasks starting from the most urgent one.

#### UDAs

Taskcheck leverages to UDAs, `estimated` and `time_map`. The `estimated` attribute is
the expected time to complete the task in hours. The `time_map` is a comma-separated list of strings
that indicates the hours per day in which you will work on a task (e.g. `work`, `weekend`, etc.).
The exact correspondence between the `time_map` and the hours of the day is defined in the configuration
file of taskcheck. For instance:

```toml
[time_maps]
# get an error)
[time_maps.work]
monday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
tuesday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
# ...
```

#### They say it's an "AI"

Taskcheck will also parse online iCal calendars (Google, Apple, etc.) and will match them with your time maps.
It will then modify the Taskwarrior tasks by adding the `completion_date` attribute with the expected
date of completion and the `scheduled` attribute with the date in which the task is expected to
start.

It will also print a red line for every task whose `completion_date` is after its `due_date`.

In general, it is recommended to run taskcheck rather frequently and at least once at the beginning
of your working day.

#### Reports

You can also print simple reports that exploit the `scheduling` UDA filled by Taskcheck to grasp
how much time you have to work on which task in which day. For
instance:

- `taskcheck -r today` will show the tasks planned for today
- `taskcheck -r 1w` will show the tasks planned for the next week,

## Algorithm

The algorithm allocates a fixed amount of time for each task (e.g. 1 hour) and then recomputes the
urgency and restart the allocation procedure.

If after 1 hour the long task has decreased urgency, that will be noticed and the newer most urgent
task will get scheduled in its place.

The minimum time for a task is by default 2 hours, but you can change it by tuning the `min_block`
taskwarrior UDA.

## Configuration

`taskcheck --install` allows you to create required and recommended configurations for
   taskwarrior. It will also generate a default configuration file for taskcheck.

Below is an example of taskcheck configuration file:

```toml
[time_maps]
# in which hours you will work in each day (in 24h format, if you use e.g. 25.67 you will likely 
# get an error)
[time_maps.work]
monday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
tuesday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
wednesday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
thursday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]
friday = [[9, 12.30], [14, 17]]

[time_maps.weekend]
saturday = [[9, 12.30], ]
sunday = [[9, 12.30], ]

[scheduler]
days_ahead = 1000 # how far go with the schedule (lower values make the computation faster)

[calendars]
# ical calendars can be used to block your time and make the scheduling more precise
[calendars.1]
url = "https://your/url/to/calendar.ics"
expiration = 0.08 # in hours (0.08 hours =~ 5 minutes)
timezone = "Europe/Rome" # if set, force timezone for this calendar; timezone values are TZ identifiers (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones)

[calendars.holidays]
url = "https://www.officeholidays.com/ics-clean/italy/milan"
event_all_day_is_blocking = true
expiration = 720 # in hours (720 hours = 30 days)

[report]
additional_attributes = ["estimated", "due", "urgency"] # additional attributes to show in the report
# when these words are matched in the task description, the corresponding emoji is used
emoji_keywords = {"meet"=":busts_in_silhouette:", "review"=":mag_right:"}
include_unplanned = true # include unplanned tasks in the report in an ad-hoc section
additional_attributes_unplanned = ["due", "urgency"] # additional attributes to show in the report for unplanned tasks
```

## Tips and Tricks

- You can exclude a task from being scheduled by removing the `time_map` or `estimated` attributes.
- You can see tasks that you can execute now with the `task ready` report.

## CLI Options

```
-v, --verbose: increase output verbosity
-i, --install: install taskcheck configuration
-r, --report: show tasks planned until a certain time
```
